It is my immense pleasure to recommend Ms. Madhumita Satish Jadhav for a Master’s program at your esteemed university as her mentor as well as a technical evangelist at Cybage software Pvt Ltd. I have been closely associated with Ms. Madhumita for 1 year. In the initial phase she convinced me with her curiosity, eager to learn new things, positive attitude, sound judgement and discerning ability that I could hand over prediction project of US Auto Parts to Madhumita to develop and supervise intermittently whenever needed. She truly been asset.
Her selection in the organization as a Trainee software Engineer through college campus was based on written aptitude test, followed by rigorous technical interview. Since joining she has undergone a Data Science Fresher’s Training for one month where she learned analytics languages like R, Python, database languages like T-SQL,PL/SQL, database tools like MS-SQL, MySQL, Vertica, Apache Drill as well as BI Reporting tools like Tableau, Power BI, QlikView, Pentaho used for data analysis SSAS.  After completing her training she has been selected to work for one of the vital project at Cybage for one of our esteemed client in US.
She has good technical skills, she is very hardworking, very quick learner, adopts new technologies quickly and has shown very good analytical thinking ability and good mathematics aptitude. While working on the project she came across many new technologies and methodologies which she learnt passionately.
In addition to this, she was a good team player, maintaining healthy personal relations with everyone around, always helping others in her team without a second thought. With the pleasant demeanor, work ethics and moral code she was always fun to work with.
Moreover, her endeavors for perfection, undeniable zeal, enthusiasm, foresight, innovation, and dynamism contributed the reflection of her thought, idea and concepts above all honest effort. I am confident that this bright spark, inquisitive and stalwart person will undoubtedly be a valuable addition to your university.

