It gives me great pleasure to speak about and recommend Ms. Madhumita Jadhav for the Masters program at your esteemed university. My observations of Ms. Madhumita comes through my close interaction with her.
I taught her Advanced Computer Networks and Computer Security and in both the classes she proved herself as a scholar, attentive, and one of the best and favorite students I ever taught. Her alertness and involvement in the classroom are indicative of her interest in this field. She has creative mind and always looking for best possible solution to the problem. I observed that she has good hold over software and understand the working of one in no time. This has helped her to score well in practical examination. She was topper of the class and was Class Representative and handled class very well. 
In the final year project “Automatic Toll booth using RFID” under my guidance, Madhumita and her team had gone through many huddles and overcome it with their dedication and efforts, leading her team Madhumita learned new techniques to connect hardware and software and helped to reduce traffic congestion in no time and it was one of the best project in the college.
I believe she is truly versatile student and she buckles down every problem by pouring her hundred percent efforts. She is not only good in studies but also good in drawing and games like chess. She has won many accolades in drawing and chess and always ready to draw creative Rangoli during all events held in the college.  She was also participated in State Level Paper Presentation Competition called EXPOTECH on topic “Artificial Intelligence” which truly shows her interest in this field and was also volunteer of the same volunteering and managing event and made it Successful. She never left single opportunity to be part of or managing any event or activity in college. I noticed that she managed her academics and extra-curricular activities well with her excellent time management and multi-tasking skills and that to not affecting her studies proves her to be versatile person. 
I found her very well-behaved, prompt, highbrow student and still down to earth, humble and honest human being and know that she has been an outstanding student throughout her academic career and will continue to be same in your university as well.
