Right from the school days I have been fond of drawing and paintings, starting from pencil shading, cartoon characters to grave scenes of poverty I portrait diverse shades of life. Back in school one of my drawing was published in International Art exhibition called “Kshitij” where I draw the resolution painting using only two colors so that same color should not be adjacent to each other and that’s when I learn my first algorithm (Graph coloring) which I am totally unaware of at that time and eventually found Interest in algorithms, problem solving and that’s when I decided to do diploma in Computer Engineering. 
During my diploma being a topper of the class I was always encouraged to take the new opportunities by teachers and that’s how I developed the leadership quality in me. Being the team lead of our final year project “Cashless Toll Booth using RFID” I faced many problems as for the first time we are working on live project apart from the assignments where we surveyed the toll booth of Maharashtra and gathered data from all the tollbooth developed the system which automatically deduct the money from your Radio Frequency Identification Card which is attached to your car in order to reduce traffic congestion and that’s when I started to learn the data gathering and handling the data in efficient manner. I learned programming languages like C, C++, Java then other subject like RDBMS, Operating Systems and System Programming. Apart from the academics I have taken participation in games like Chess where I was the State level Chess Player and secured ranked 17th in entire state. Also my drawing skills grew as I am, and lead to give many accolades in intercollege completions which represents my creativity and innovations such as Drawing, Rangoli, Face Painting I got first prize in almost every competition.
My undergraduate at Vishwakarma Institute of Technology has given me the right foundation for me to grow as a better person.  The education imparted to me as a young was not limited to conventional knowledge. I was fortunate enough to be in a college that gave me all the aspects of education. The artist in me was unleashed and nurtured; the sociality in me was discovered and encouraged when I have taken participation in Ignited Innovations of India a social program where I presented social awareness program project and got second prize in all India. Apart from this we have do many campaign for social awareness like Go Green, Blood Donation, save water.  This kind of exposure to the extra-curricular activities in college has shaped me the person I am today. 
Another hobby of mine is delivering speech on different topics which continue to grow as I grow. I have given speech on abundance of topics when I was in school, also I participated in International Seminars held in our college  like “Artificial Intelligence”, “Google Driverless Car” and “Big Data”  where I come to learn machine learning algorithms like SVM and Pattern Recognition then I come
Apart from academics, I also paid attention to my overall personality development. IITs International technical fare TechFest is the Asia’s biggest technical fare where I attended android development workshop inspired by the android language I build my very first application of Tic Tac Toe and then Sudoku and published it on Google Play Store. And also build android app for our colleges technical event Melonge an where we build the fast, user friendly and efficient app of Melonge events registration and event scheduling system where we gave proper scheduled events online registration for events and that lead to be in the technical team of college.

While working with the Cybage, I learned a lot about Data Science where I undergone with the training on R, Java, done projects on Weather Delay pattern and Prediction of US airlines, Readmission Prediction of Singapore Health care and done Customer Relationship Management for my company. Apart from this I have completed various online courses related to data science like R Programming, Data Cleaning, Statistical Inferences, Regression Modeling, by John Hopkins, Text Retrieval and Search Engine, ML Azure by Microsoft and Tableau by Duke University. Machine Learning and CS50 by Stanford University.

The accommodating and coherent course coupled with top-notch faculty, top research programs, magnificent infrastructure, and provision of myriads of other facilities besides scholastic services makes Arizona State University an exemplary choice for me, giving an international dimension to my career. The student organizations such as consulting club, Deans Council, coupled with courses like ‘Info. Technology Strategy & Management’ and ‘Enterprise Resource Planning’ will pave the way to achieve my goal. I also wish to carry out research in ‘Data Analysis’ under Dr. Sumit Majumdar. Therefore, I greatly look forward to be a part of most innovative university of the country. I shall strive in earnest to live up to the student legacy of the university and designing the better future with innovations.


