Statement of Purpose For ASU
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Right from the school days I have been fond of drawing and paintings, starting from pencil shading, cartoon characters to grave scenes of poverty I portrait diverse shades of life. Back in school one of my drawings was published in International Art exhibition called “Kshitij” where I draw the resolution painting using only two colors so that same color should not be adjacent to each other and that’s when I learn my first algorithm (Graph coloring) which I am totally unaware of at that time and eventually found Interest in algorithms, problem solving and that’s when I decided to do diploma in Computer Engineering. 
During my diploma being a topper of the class I was always encouraged to take the new opportunities by teachers and that’s how I developed the leadership quality in me. Being the team lead of our final year project “Cashless Toll Booth using RFID” I faced many problems as for the first time we were working on live project apart from the assignments where we surveyed the toll booth of Pune city and gathered data from all the  nearby tollbooth and developed the computerized system that deduct the money from corresponding car having Radio Frequency Identification Card which is attached to your car in order to reduce traffic congestion and that’s when I started to learn the data gathering and handling the data in efficient manner. I learned programming languages like C, C++, Java then other subject like RDBMS, Operating Systems and System Programming. 
My undergraduate at Vishwakarma Institute of Technology has given me the right foundation for me to grow as a better person.  The education imparted to me as a young was not limited to conventional knowledge. I was fortunate enough to be in a college that gave me all the aspects of education. I learned Data Structures, Probability and Statistics, Design and Analysis of Algorithms, Machine Learning, Randomized Algorithms which unleashed my curiosity and interest in the Algorithms and in the final year  I decided to do research project on the Data mining where we created Citation Clustering algorithm for Identifying research contribution we have worked on text mining and used the Natural language Processing and created graph for the part of speech. We also published paper on the same in the International Conference on Database and Data Mining where our paper got selected amongst seven countries and regions in the world. Apart from the study the sociality in me was unleashed and nurtured; the sociality in me was discovered and encouraged when I have taken participation in Ignited Innovations of India a social program where I presented social awareness program project and got second prize in all India. Furthermore we have done many campaigns for social awareness like Go Green, Blood Donation, save water.  This kind of exposure to the extra-curricular activities in college has shaped me the person I am today. 
In the final year of engineering I got selected in very first company which came for campus drive i.e. Cybage Software Private Limited. As per our college policy I can get offer from only one company so I decided to take that opportunity though pay package is small as the company is small. Cybage became a blessing in disguise for me as I learned a lot about Data Science where I undergone with the training on R, Java, visualization tools such as Tableau, Qlikview, Power BI which was exactly in alignment with my field of interest. I have done projects on Weather Delay Prediction of US airlines, Hospital Readmission Prediction of Singapore Health care and done Customer Relationship Management for my company. Apart from this I have completed various online data science courses to illuminate my knowledge further like R Programming, Data Cleaning, Practical Machine Learning, Statistical Inferences, Text Retrieval and Search Engine, ML Azure by Microsoft and Tableau by Duke University. Regression Modeling, by John Hopkins in which I completed capstone of  Ranking of Hospital and Predicting how well the user is using devices like Fitbit, Nike FuelBand where I followed complete process of building prediction functions including data collection, feature creation, algorithms and evaluation. While working on live projects I faced many challenges as how to handle big data, how to find inferences and correlation between variables and how to find inferences and statistical approach for it and that’s when I decided to take MS in data science.
My hobby of delivering speech on different topics which continue to grow as I grow. I have given speech on abundance of topics when I was in school, also I participated in International Seminars held in our college and delivered seminars on topics like “Artificial Intelligence”, “Google Driverless Car” and “Big Data” where I come to learn machine learning algorithms like SVM and Pattern Recognition then I come to know various machine learning algorithms and thus decided to do final year project on Machine learning and Data Mining. Apart from academics, I also paid attention to my overall personality development. IITs International technical fare TechFest is the Asia’s biggest technical fare where I attended android development workshop and I build my very first android application of Tic Tac Toe and then Sudoku and published it on Google Play Store. And also build android app for technical event Melange of my college, where we build the fast, user friendly and efficient app of Melange events registration and event scheduling system where we gave proper scheduled events online registration for events and that lead to be in the technical team of college. Based on my android knowledge I got internship in third year of engineering at Innobytes a small startup where I build the UI of the site HomeChef.  Apart from the academics I have taken participation in games like Chess where I was the State level Chess Player and secured ranked 17th in entire state. Also my drawing skills grew as I am, and lead to give many accolades in intercollegiate completions where I represented my creativity and innovations such as Drawing, Rangoli, Face Painting I got first prize in almost every drawing competition.
The accommodating and coherent course coupled with top-notch faculty, top research programs, magnificent infrastructure, and provision of myriads of other facilities besides scholastic services makes Arizona State University an exemplary choice for me, giving an international dimension to my career. The student organizations such as consulting club, Deans Council, coupled with research program like ‘Babies Jaundice Treatment Analysis’ will pave the way to achieve my goal. I also wish to carry out research in ‘Data Analysis’ under XYZ professor. Therefore, I greatly look forward to be a part of most innovative university of the country. I shall strive in earnest to live up to the student legacy of the university and designing the better future with innovations.
